README.md, before:

# punkProse

Punctuation generation for speech transcripts using lexical and prosodic features. 

Modification on forked repository (by reducing training to one stage and addition of more word-level prosodic features. 

For example data and extraction scripts see: https://github.com/alpoktem/ted_preprocess

## Example Run
Data directory (path $datadir) should look like the output folder (sample_ted_punc_data) in https://github.com/alpoktem/ted_preprocess

* Training:
Training is done on sequenced data stored in train.pickle under $datadir. 

prosodic features: pause + two semitone feature (f0 range, intensity range), output: reduced punctuation set (comma, period, question_mark)

hidden layer/word embeddings size:100, param hidden layer/embeddings size: 10, learning rate:0.05

`modelId="mod_rangeF0-rangeI0"`

`python main.py -m $modelId -n 100 -o 10 -l 0.05 -d $datadir -p -f range.f0.id -f range.i0.id -r`

* Testing:
Testing is done on continuous data in test.pickle under $datadir. 

`model_name="Model_single-stage_""$modelId""_h100_lr0.05.pcl"`

`out_predictions="predicted_""$modelId"".txt"`

`python punctuator.py -m Model_single-stage_mod_rangeF0-rangeI0_h100_lr0.05.pcl -i $datadir -o $out_predictions -p -f range.f0.id -f range.i0.id`

* Scoring testing output:
Predictions are compared with groundtruth data in $datadir. 

`groundtruthData=$datadir/groundtruth/data1.txt`

`python error_calculator.py $groundtruthData $out_predictions`

## Citing

This work is published as:

	@inproceedings{punkProse,
		author = {Alp Oktem and Mireia Farrus and Leo Wanner},
		title = {Attentional Parallel RNNs for Generating Punctuation in Transcribed Speech},
		booktitle = {5th International Conference on Statistical Language and Speech Processing SLSP 2017},
		year = {2017}}

Commit message:

Only works with CSV file formats (proscript) now. If samples are smaller than max-sample-size they are padded for training. Error calculator takes directory or single file as input and takes the last punctuation into account while calculating scores. Punctuator takes vocabulary file separately as input. If batch size is 1 then no padding is done.

README.md, after:

# punkProse

Punctuation generation for speech transcripts using lexical and prosodic features. 

Modification on forked repository (by reducing training to one stage and addition of more word-level prosodic features) . 

For example data and extraction scripts see: https://github.com/alpoktem/ted_preprocess

## Example Run
Data directory (path `$datadir`) should look like the output folder (sample_ted_punc_data) in https://github.com/alpoktem/ted_preprocess. Word vocabulary list and sampled training/testing/development sets are stored here.

* Training:
Training is done on sequenced data stored in `train_samples` under `$datadir`. 

- Parameters used in example run below: 
	- Prosodic features pause + two semitone feature (f0 range, intensity range), 
	- output: reduced punctuation set (comma, period, question_mark)
	- hidden layer/word embeddings size:100
	- param hidden layer/embeddings size: 10
	- learning rate:0.05
	- maximum sample size (words in one sample) : 50 
	- Batch size: 128

`modelId="mod_rangeF0-rangeI0"`

`python main.py -m $modelId -n 100 -o 10 -l 0.05 -d $datadir -p -f range_f0 -f range_i0 -r -s 50 -b 128`

* Testing:
Testing is done on proscript data using `punctuator.py`. Either single `<input-file>` or `<input-directory>` is given as input using `-i` or `-d` respectively. Even if there's punctuation information on this data, it is ignored. Predictions for each file in the `$test_samples` directory are put into `$out_preditions` directory.

`model_name="Model_single-stage_""$modelId""_h100_lr0.05.pcl"`

`python punctuator.py -m Model_single-stage_mod_rangeF0-rangeI0_h100_lr0.05.pcl -v <word-vocabulary-file> -d $test_samples -o $out_predictions -p -f range_f0 -f range_i0`

* Scoring testing output:
Predictions are compared with groundtruth data using `error_calculator.py`. It either takes two files to compare or two directories containing groundtruth/prediction files. Use `-r` for reducing punctuation marks. 

`python error_calculator.py -g $groundtruthData -p $out_predictions -r`

## Citing

This work is published as:

	@inproceedings{punkProse,
		author = {Alp Oktem and Mireia Farrus and Leo Wanner},
		title = {Attentional Parallel RNNs for Generating Punctuation in Transcribed Speech},
		booktitle = {5th International Conference on Statistical Language and Speech Processing SLSP 2017},
		year = {2017},
		address = {Le Mans, France}
	}
